INSTALLATION INSTRUCTIONS for ADNS

1. Read the security note below.

2. Standard GNU package build process:
   $ ./configure
   $ make
   # make install

Unfortunately, since this is a beta, there is no good documentation
yet.  For now, use the comments in the public header file adns.h.


You will find that adns requires a reasonably standard and up to date
system.

The following platforms have been tested at at least some point and
should work - please report if they don't:
  [adns]       OS
   pre-1.0	Linux glibc 2.1 (actually tested on Debian 2.2).
   pre-1.0	FreeBSD 3.2		
   pre-1.0	Solaris 2.6, 2.7, 2.8
   pre-1.0	HP-UX 10.20, 11.00
   pre-1.0	IRIX 6.5 *not* with GCC [1], --disable-dynamic
Later versions of the same OS should work too.  [adns] is the latest
version of adns that has been tested.  Usually entries in this table
mean they pass adns's own regression test, when compiled with GCC.
Notes/known problems:
    [1] IRIX 6.5 inet_ntoa seems to break with GCC.

The following platforms are known to be deficient and will not work:
    Solaris 2.5			Lacks vsnprintf
    TruUnix64 (DEC UNIX 4.0f)	Lacks vsnprintf
Please don't report these problems unless you have a nice,
straightforward solution or workaround for them.

In particular, the build system assumes that you have ELF shared
libraries.  If you don't then please don't send me patches to support
your kind of shared libraries, and don't send me patches to use
libtool.  I'm not interested in supporting non-ELF shared libraries,
and I dislike libtool.  If you do not have ELF shared libraries then
please use the --disable-shared configure option.

The adnsresfilter utility uses `tsearch' from the C library (a la SVID
and X/Open).  If your C library doesn't have tsearch you will find
that configure arranges for adnsresfilter not to be built.  To rectify
this, install a C library containing tsearch, such as the GNU C
library.  It is best if tsearch uses an automatically-balancing tree
algorithm, like the glibc version does.  Simple binary trees may
perform badly.

You will probably find that GNU Make is required.


SECURITY AND PERFORMANCE - AN IMPORTANT NOTE

adns is not a full-service resolver.  It does no caching of responses
at all, and has no defence against bad nameservers or fake packets
which appear to come from your real nameservers.  It relies on the
full-service resolvers listed in resolv.conf to handle these tasks.

For secure and reasonable operation you MUST run a full-service
nameserver on the same system as your adns applications, or on the
same local, fully trusted network.  You MUST only list such
nameservers in the adns configuration (eg resolv.conf).

You MUST use a firewall or other means to block packets which appear
to come from these nameservers, but which were actually sent by other,
untrusted, entities.

Furthermore, adns is not DNSSEC-aware in this version; it doesn't
understand even how to ask a DNSSEC-aware nameserver to perform the
DNSSEC cryptographic signature checking.


COPYRIGHT

This file, INSTALL, contains installation instructions and other
details for adns.  It is
 Copyright (C) 1997-2000 Ian Jackson <ian@davenant.greenend.org.uk>

adns is
 Copyright (C) 1997-2000 Ian Jackson <ian@davenant.greenend.org.uk>
 Copyright (C) 1999 Tony Finch <dot@dotat.at>              [1]
 Copyright (C) 1991 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  [2]

adns is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with adns as the file COPYING; if not, email me at the address
above or write to the Free Software Foundation, 59 Temple Place -
Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.

[1] Tony Finch holds the original copyright on
    client/adnslogres.c and client/fanftest.c.
[2] MIT hold the original copyright on the included install-sh,
    which came via GNU autoconf.

# Local variables:
# mode: text
# End:
